ORM audit and adversarial reassessment, 2026-10-04

This replaces the initial audit's conclusions. The challenge found that two
local patches repaired symptoms of an invalid optimization. They were removed,
not retained as evidence that the optimization was sound. This remains a
bounded audit, not verification of every ORM line or every addon behavior.

Disposition of every original finding
------------------------------------
1. Pool capacity on cancelled reconnect: CONFIRMED; fix retained.
   Pool::acquire formerly forgot its permit and removed the connection before
   awaiting reconnect. Cancellation bypassed the explicit error cleanup.
   The stalled-handshake regression demonstrated free=0, permits=0 before the
   fix and free=1, permits=1 afterward. A Lease now owns the slot before await.
   Added tests cover a saturated waiter's timeout, reconnect configuration
   failure, actual PostgreSQL backend termination under a request guard, and
   subsequent successful queries. These complement the existing poison tests.

   Limit exposed by challenging the TEST: an initial backend-termination test
   demanded that is_closed() immediately reflect the remote kill. It failed:
   the driver had not published closure yet. Acquisition cannot guarantee the
   peer stays alive. The corrected test exercises TxGuard, the server's actual
   mechanism for preventing interrupted requests from returning usable leases.
   The production fix is slot ownership, not automatic retry of any SQL error.

2. Post-flush untracked-write recheck: LOCAL DEFECT CONFIRMED, PATCH SUPERSEDED.
3. Write scanner missing newline/comment-separated INSERT: REPRODUCED, PATCH
   SUPERSEDED. My original five-fix summary gave these changes too much weight.
   Neither made empty_by_construction correct. Three stronger database tests
   disproved the optimization after both local patches were already applied:

   a. A committed integer res_model/res_id reference can point to an ID inserted
      later. No foreign key prohibits that row. The shortcut returned no rows;
      PostgreSQL returned id 1.
   b. A lazy Query was built while the reference table was empty; a valid FK
      reference was inserted before execution. The shortcut froze WHERE FALSE;
      PostgreSQL's normal predicate found id 1. Perfect write tracking at
      compilation time would not fix this temporal error.
   c. A preexisting SQL function inserted a reference through SELECT. The text
      scanner saw no write, so the shortcut again answered an empty set.

   All three originally produced:
       SELECT "audit_search_ref"."id" FROM "audit_search_ref" WHERE FALSE
       actual=[]; expected=[(1,)]
   All now pass through ordinary predicate compilation and return [(1,)].

   Resolution: removed the empty-search branch, its created-ID and trigger
   caches, its commit/rollback cleanup hook, and its sole-use cursor write
   scanner/state/getters. Removed the old unit test which asserted the unsafe
   optimization as expected behavior, and replaced it with database contracts.
   RUSTORM_PORT_NO_EMPTY and search_raw.empty no longer control/report a path.
   Private RustConn written_tables/writes_untracked diagnostics were removed;
   repository call-site searches found no other consumer. Native search itself
   remains armed and uses its existing compiler/delegation path.
   Performance tradeoff: formerly short-circuited searches now compile/execute;
   every cursor statement also loses unnecessary write scanning. No net speed
   improvement or regression has been measured.

4. Quoted SQL identifiers consumed parameters: CONFIRMED; fix retained.
   This is not justified solely by arbitrary PostgreSQL identifiers. The fork's
   check_pg_name/check_column_name validators explicitly allow dollar signs.
   A new test builds a query with SeaQuery for audit$1.amount$2, then converts
   that actual generated SQL. Identifiers survive and exactly one parameter
   binds. The direct tests also cover quotes and percents, but apostrophes and
   percent signs are outside the fork's normal name validators: those cases
   are robustness coverage, not proof of common application failures.
   to_odoo_dialect still handles generated SQL, not arbitrary PostgreSQL text.

5. Standalone test runner skipped two definitions: CONFIRMED; fix retained.
   sys.exit(main()) occurred before the large-insert and uniform-update tests.
   Pytest could see them while the script used by verify.sh could not. Moving
   the entry point to EOF closes that coverage gap. Current script run:
   SHIMS OK (81 tests, 0 skipped); one old empty-shortcut test was removed.

6. Trigger cache freshness: STATIC FINDING, SUBSYSTEM NOW REMOVED.
   Negative trigger presence was cached by registry identity, and the probe
   inspected only public. It was not valid proof for arbitrary later DDL or
   schemas. This challenge did not run an actual full-registry trigger-change
   reproduction. No claim of such a reproduction is made.
   Correction: mixed-case table names cited initially are rejected by the
   fork's table-name validator; that particular concern was overbroad. Dollar
   signs are allowed and were also outside the old target reader's grammar.

7. Duplicated SQL parsing: OBSERVATION, NOT A PROVEN SHARED-LEXER DESIGN.
   Cursor placeholders, trusted fragment ingestion, and generated-SQL output
   have different contracts. Sharing all rewrite behavior would be incorrect
   (notably printf placeholder handling versus SQL lexical interpretation).
   Centralizing opaque-region recognition may be useful, but requires explicit
   supported-input contracts. No general parser rewrite is justified here.

8. Serializer accepts short rows: DOWNGRADED TO DEFENSIVE HARDENING.
   records_to_json accepts fewer cells than names. However, its sole production
   caller decodes one cell per kinds entry, adds one cell per x2many entry, and
   builds names from those same lists. Inspection found no current route that
   violates the width invariant. No production corruption was demonstrated.
   Do not present this as a user-visible bug or urgently add branches to the
   hot serialization loop without a reachable counterexample.

9. Prepared-statement LRU cost: UNMEASURED HYPOTHESIS.
   get() does retain over a queue and copies a key under a mutex, with capacity
   256. That establishes algorithmic work, not a latency bottleneck. The
   existing stmt_cache_bench compares cache lifetimes, not alternative LRU hit
   implementations. No replacement data structure or performance claim follows
   from this audit. A representative contention benchmark is still needed.

10. Logging overhead: CONDITIONAL OBSERVATION, NOT A MEASURED REGRESSION.
    PythonLogLayer formats before Python isEnabledFor. However, the Rust
    EnvFilter defaults to warn, filtering DEBUG upstream. Extra disabled-DEBUG
    formatting requires a permissive Rust filter paired with a restrictive
    Python logger. Moving formatting into Python::attach could also extend GIL
    ownership. No optimization or performance conclusion without measurements.

11. Search statistics attributed to wrong method: REPRODUCED AND FIXED.
    Calling search_raw with bypass_access without superuser recorded one
    delegated search and zero delegated search_raw calls. Tests cover both
    entry points. The helper now carries the originating method for refusal
    reasons and online-compile counts. This corrects telemetry, not row results.

12. Generate forwarding methods: OPTIONAL IDEA WITHDRAWN AS A REQUIRED CHANGE.
    Explicit methods aid protocol discovery, signatures and tracebacks. A
    generated method table can reduce repetition but adds indirection; existing
    protocol/signature tests already detect drift. No actual defect found.

13. Unused deadpool-postgres dependency: SOURCE OBSERVATION CONFIRMED.
    It is declared in server/Cargo.toml; no runtime source calls it. Correction:
    this is an unused dependency, not two actively competing pool designs.
    Removing it is optional build cleanup. No runtime speed claim is supported.

14. README length/reorganization: EDITORIAL PREFERENCE, NOT A DEFECT.
    README.md has 4,298 lines, but M3-PLAN.md and dated evidence already separate
    some concerns. Historical evidence can be useful. A split is not justified
    merely by line count and was not performed.

15. Coverage and test counts: CLAIMS NARROWED AND RECHECKED.
    The earlier 260 Rust / 115 Python counts were sums of passing tests, not
    375 independent end-to-end contracts. Running server tests separately
    repeats its three pure tests. Default cargo test skips database tests.
    Debug environment variables alone do not install a Rust subscriber; the
    new Rust probes explicitly install one and Python runs configure logging.

Reproducible new contracts and limits
------------------------------------
- harness/test_search_time_contract.py: three PostgreSQL data/time contracts
  and two method-attribution tests. RustConn, RustBackend routing, Domain,
  dependency flushing and Query are real. WHERE compilation is substituted
  with an ordinary predicate builder; the model facade has no computed fields.
  Thus these isolate the invalid shortcut, not full Odoo compiler/addon parity.
  Data lives in connection-local temporary tables. SQL functions are in pg_temp.
- kernel/tests/pure.rs: generated-SQL identifier conversion and direct quoting
  edge cases. No PostgreSQL execution is claimed for these Rust unit tests.
- server/src/http.rs: cancelled reconnect, waiter timeout, reconnect error and
  real backend termination with TxGuard. Only the test-owned backend is killed.

Commands (cwd odoo-rust-orm; extension freshly rebuilt)
-----------------------------------------------------
cargo build --release -p odoo-engine-py --lib
RUST_LOG=debug RUSTORM_LOG=debug cargo test --workspace
RUSTORM_LOG=debug RUSTORM_DB=rustorm_challenge_20261004 \
  cargo test -p odoo-server -- --include-ignored --nocapture
PYTHONPATH=/tmp/odoo-rust-audit-pymod:/home/marin/Odoo/odoo:/home/marin/Odoo/odoo-rust-orm/engine-py/python \
  RUSTORM_LOG=debug \
  RUSTORM_TEST_DSN='host=/var/run/postgresql user=marin dbname=rustorm_challenge_20261004' \
  /home/marin/Odoo/p314o19m/bin/python -m pytest harness/test_shims.py \
    harness/test_harness.py harness/test_read_probe.py \
    harness/test_search_time_contract.py --log-level=DEBUG

Local debug artifacts: /tmp/odoo-rust-challenge-{search-before,search-after,
stats-before,workspace,pool,python,standalone,build,clippy}.log. Before search
log preserves all three counterexamples; stats-before preserves the miscount.
These temporary logs are not permanent repository evidence. Tests are retained.

Final validation: 259 workspace Rust tests passed, 12 explicitly ignored;
8 server tests passed with --include-ignored (3 repeat the pure workspace
tests, 5 exercise database/pool behavior); 119 Python tests passed, including
the 3 database counterexamples; standalone shims passed 81 with no skips.
The release extension passed the source-checksum test. Workspace Clippy
(-D warnings), Rust formatting, Ruff on changed Python files, and whitespace
checks passed. The changed search_path.py integration scenario was linted but
not executed against a full Odoo registry. M3-PLAN.md now marks the old shortcut
measurements as historical. The disposable database was removed after testing.

No production database, full Odoo differential corpus, browser tour or
throughput benchmark was used. All live probes used the disposable
rustorm_challenge_20261004 database. Performance hypotheses remain hypotheses.


Implementation follow-through (same day, on main)
------------------------------------------------
The previous sections preserve the earlier review and its limits. The user
subsequently requested implementation, including maintainability improvements.
The following supersedes earlier optional/unmeasured/unexecuted status:

- Shared SQL boundary scanning in kernel/src/sqllex.rs replaces duplicated
  comment/quote handling in the cursor, SQL comparands and write conversion.
  Nested block comments, E-string escapes, doubled identifier quotes, dollar
  strings and dollar-bearing identifiers are covered. Placeholder semantics
  remain layer-specific: cursor printf substitution still operates in quotes.
  PostgreSQL db_probe executes escaped-string/nested-comment comparisons.
- Row serialization rejects both short and long rows instead of emitting
  incomplete objects. The invariant is checked once per row before zipping.
- StmtCache hits now update an integer age with one map lookup, no String
  allocation or queue scan. Eviction scans the bounded 256-entry map. A
  reference queue checks 2,000 mixed operations and forced age overflow.
- An ignored release benchmark compares the current cache with the old queue
  implementation, using real prepared statements but timing only cache hits.
  Five alternating trials, median, 50,000 lookups per thread:
      1 thread: 3.458293 ms vs 52.095758 ms (ratio 0.06638)
      4 threads: 55.468370 ms vs 298.824456 ms (ratio 0.18562)
  This is a synthetic cache-hit result, NOT an application throughput claim.
- The logging bridge checks Python log levels before formatting event fields.
  A same-callsite WARNING/DEBUG/WARNING regression verifies one rendering and
  one delivered event, preserving live level changes. Enabled events acquire
  the GIL twice; no net enabled-logging speedup is claimed.
- Mechanical persistence-port forwarding now shares one implementation with
  explicit class attributes, preserving names, kwargs, exceptions and stats.
  Existing protocol/forwarding tests validate the contract.
- Removed the unused deadpool-postgres dependency and its lockfile entries.
- Search diagnostics aggregate search and search_raw counters; verify.sh now
  runs harness/database contracts and fails if DSN resolution fails.

New issue found through the full Odoo differential run:
The disposable database was initialized with base,mail,contacts (48 installed
modules, 337 models). sweep_corpus generated 11,461 cases. Its archived-company
identity was skipped because the fork refuses archiving a default company
still used by active users. The first search_path run had 3 mismatches:
s1706/s1707/s1708, discuss.channel.ai_agent_id, ilike/not ilike/empty ilike.
The native path answered; Python raised AccessError. Metadata inspection found
access_classes.read=('ai.channel_agent',) while groups=None. Thus this was not
an incorrect user/group fixture or a trusted_domain shortcut: the export
omitted the fork's class policies, which need not have a groups= equivalent.

The exporter now marks fields with read-access classes or alternatives.
Non-superuser compilation refuses such fields for Python evaluation, including
before constant folding. Read and order callers propagate refusal rather than
silently allowing the field or dropping its order term. Superuser behavior is
preserved. This conservative fallback also leaves row-level masking to Python;
it does not attempt to reimplement arbitrary class policies. Fresh registry
exports are required to carry this new metadata. The pure regression covers
missing groups=, direct read checks, positive/negative/empty predicates,
constant folding and superuser compilation. search_path now checks exception
types when both legs raise, rather than counting every dual exception as parity.

Final validation of the implementation follow-through:
- cargo test --workspace: 265 passed; 14 database/benchmark tests explicitly
  ignored by the default run. Not every ignored test was executed below.
- Server --include-ignored: 8 passed (3 repeat workspace tests).
- db_probe --ignored --skip a_tls: 3 passed (SQL boundaries, stale cached plan,
  timeout/cancellation and a fresh subsequent snapshot).
- Python pytest: 119 passed. Standalone shim runner: 81 passed, 0 skipped
  (overlaps pytest; not additional independent tests).
- Rebuilt release extension; source-checksum validation passed.
- Full search_path on the regenerated 11,461-case corpus (deduplicated by
  search inputs): 3,004 native comparisons matched, 1,137 delegated, 2,777
  raised the same exception type. Zero mismatches. The lazy follower query
  and in-transaction security write checks both passed. No native floor was
  lowered (default 1,000).
- write_path: passed, including native VALUES/uniform updates, translated
  JSON merge/clear, native INSERT, COPY delegation and pipelined insertion.
- Clippy --workspace --all-targets -D warnings, changed Rust formatting, changed
  Python Ruff checks, shell syntax and git diff whitespace checks passed.

Debug logs revealed one further telemetry defect: connect_with_fault logged
`encrypted=true` merely because a TLS connector was configured, including
Unix-socket connections. The field is now accurately named `tls_configured`;
it makes no assertion about negotiated transport encryption.

TLS probe limitation: the initial --ignored db_probe invocation failed its
TLS test because RUSTORM_TLS_DSN was absent. Unix sockets cannot supply that
TLS probe, and local TCP requires credentials unavailable to this test. The
subsequent run explicitly excluded a_tls; no shared server authentication or
roles were changed. No TLS validation or browser-tour coverage is claimed.

Artifacts: /tmp/odoo-rust-improve-{final-workspace,final-pool,final-db,
final-python,final-standalone,final-build,final-clippy,cache-bench,search,
search-fixed,write}.log and /tmp/odoo-rust-improve/search-odoo.log. All live
work used disposable rustorm_improve_20261004; no production database used.

Cleanup: disposable rustorm_improve_20261004 was dropped after all clients
closed. Temporary Odoo configuration copies were removed; debug logs remain.
Final release checksum was rechecked after the logging-field rename. Changes
were implemented directly on main; no feature branch was created.

Workspace-wide cargo fmt --check also exposed a pre-existing import-order
difference in untouched engine-py/src/lib.rs. All changed Rust files pass
rustfmt --check; the unrelated file was left unchanged.


Continuation after commit 3c76bb8 (on main)
-----------------------------------------
Challenging the previous fix exposed a missing-state problem: from_export
used as_bool().unwrap_or(false) for python_read_access. An old export or a
malformed value therefore still meant public access. Field now carries
Option<bool>: only Some(false) states that Python class evaluation is
unneeded. None refuses non-superuser field access with a regenerate-export
message. Database-only bootstrap also leaves this policy unknown. Sudo is
unchanged. A live Odoo loader probe builds five kernels from fresh, explicit
class, missing, null and malformed metadata and compiles each as user and
superuser. All ten outcomes pass. harness/registry_policy.py is retained and
wired into verify.sh. Its synthetic flags test the real export decoder and
compiler; they do not claim coverage of every possible Python class policy.

The company-default partial-index guard used a separate recursive LIKE
matcher. It did not implement SQL backslash escapes, database collation or
unaccent. A PostgreSQL regression with a NULL-backed company default 'a%b'
and pattern a\%b returned one row through compiled SQL versus two through
the PostgreSQL control. This disproved the prior matcher's broad unit-test
name claiming PostgreSQL parity. The matcher and its redundant unit test
were removed; pattern predicates now stay in the ordinary PostgreSQL
condition without this extra IS NOT NULL guard. Regression probes for
escaped percent, underscore and backslash all now return both rows. Other
company-default guards remain. This may lose partial-index opportunities
for pattern queries; no overall performance improvement is claimed.

SQL fragment integer parameters beyond int8 were accepted as float8. A
before-test logged SELECT ($1::float8::numeric) for an integer parameter;
nearby integers can lose precision in that conversion. Rust now refuses
unsigned JSON integers beyond int8. Python validates scalar and array
integer ranges before JSON serialization, also preventing larger positive
or negative Python integers from first losing their integer representation
in the JSON decoder. Regression coverage includes int8 boundaries, 2^53+1,
out-of-range arrays, a 10^100 Python integer, booleans and genuine floats.
This addresses typed SQL-comparand parameters; it is not a claim that every
numeric conversion elsewhere in the ORM was audited.

Validation for this continuation:
- Workspace: 266 Rust tests passed, 15 tests explicitly ignored by default.
- Python: 119 tests passed using the rebuilt release extension; source CRC
  and fragment wire contracts rechecked after the final import-order fix.
- PostgreSQL: the escaped-pattern regression failed before and passed after
  the change (three cases, using a connection-local temporary table).
- Live Odoo: registry-policy probe passed all ten compilation outcomes on a
  database initialized with base. The complete previous differential corpus
  was not rerun for this continuation.
- Clippy all targets with -D warnings, Ruff, shell syntax, and whitespace
  checks pass. The existing engine-py/src/lib.rs import ordering is now fixed;
  workspace-wide cargo fmt --check passes, superseding its earlier limitation.
- Debug evidence: /tmp/odoo-rust-followup-{workspace,python,policy,
  pattern-before,pattern-after,integer-before,build,checksum,clippy}.log and
  /tmp/odoo-rust-followup/odoo.log. Only rustorm_followup_20261004 was used.

Continuation cleanup: disposable database dropped after every client closed;
temporary configuration removed. Debug logs retained. Follow-up changes are
uncommitted on main; no feature branch was created.


Second continuation: numeric coercion and parser scaling
------------------------------------------------------
A new regression failed before the numeric fix: credit_limit = 'NaN' compiled
to credit_limit IN (0) OR credit_limit IS NULL. coerce_numeric parsed a float
then Json::from silently represented non-finite values as null. The reference
probe used the fork's actual _coerce_numeric and PostgreSQL: Python's NaN
selected the NaN row (id 3), whereas the old emitted predicate selected zero
and NULL (ids 1 and 2). inf, -Infinity and overflowing 1e999 have the same
representation problem. Python-valid 1_000 and Arabic decimal digits were
instead incorrectly classified as nonnumbers by Rust's parser.

coerce_numeric now distinguishes invalid strings (the existing drop behavior)
from unsupported numeric representations (KernelRefused, allowing Python
fallback). It refuses non-finite floats and strings containing underscores or
non-ASCII characters. The latter is conservative: some invalid strings also
delegate; no claim of implementing Python's complete numeric grammar is made.
The native regression covers six representations and five operators. Six
Python/PostgreSQL reference tests live in test_search_time_contract.py, which
verify.sh already runs. These reference tests do not build a full Odoo registry.

The domain parser's nary helper repeatedly copied a growing right-hand suffix
into a new Vec, producing quadratic work on a flat, right-associated domain.
Pending junctions now use VecDeque, merging the smaller child list into the
larger one while preserving left-to-right order. Conversion to the public
Vec-based AST happens when a junction is finished. Binary parsing no longer
allocates an extra two-element operand Vec. Structural depth checks and
negation-pair collapse remain intact. An independent prefix interpreter checks
200 generated expressions against all 32 assignments of five Boolean inputs;
a separate traversal verifies exact leaf order. Existing large-domain and
nesting-boundary regressions also pass. This tests both semantics and layout;
benchmark timing itself is not a correctness assertion.

Release parser benchmark (five trials per size, medians, same input generator):
    Terms      Before ms      After ms
     2,000       4.276595       0.275194
     4,000      15.438824       0.455641
     8,000      74.971490       0.932629
    16,000     411.512462       1.902940
The benchmark is retained as kernel/tests/domain_bench.rs (ignored by default).
It times parsing only, excluding input construction and output-tree drop, with
DEBUG logging installed but TRACE domain dumps disabled. Measurements are
from separate before/after release builds, not alternating in one process.
They establish local parser scaling, not whole-application throughput.

Validation: 268 workspace Rust tests passed; 16 tests explicitly ignored by
default. The parser benchmark was separately executed. 125 Python tests passed,
including PostgreSQL temporary-table references and the rebuilt extension's
source checksum. Clippy all targets -D warnings, workspace cargo fmt --check,
Ruff, shell syntax and whitespace checks pass. A full Odoo differential corpus
and browser tests were not rerun for this continuation.

Artifacts: /tmp/odoo-rust-next-{domain-before,domain-after,numeric-before,
numeric-postgres,workspace,python,clippy,build}.log. Only the disposable
rustorm_numeric_20261004 database was used. All probes used debug loggers.

Second-continuation cleanup: rustorm_numeric_20261004 was dropped after all
clients closed. Debug logs retained. Changes remain uncommitted on main.

Third continuation: search comparands and arithmetic boundaries
--------------------------------------------------------------
Reproduced Char search truncation against a PostgreSQL varchar(2): code = USA
incorrectly matched stored US. The fork's Char._comparand_to_column preserves
search text, unlike its storage conversion. Removed search truncation and the
now-unused Field.size / Column.max_length metadata and export member. The
retained PostgreSQL test compares three values (ASCII, Unicode, integer) across
eight operators, 24 comparisons total. Three Python tests independently check
the fork's storage/search conversion distinction.

Reproduced a company-default guard excluding NULL-backed rows for numeric 123
against text default "123": binding converted the value after the guard had
already compared unlike JSON types. Normalize text numbers before guards.
The retained PostgreSQL test verifies both default-backed and explicit rows.
Float-to-text comparands delegate conservatively because Python and JSON
formatting differ; this does not claim a native Python float formatter.

Reproduced hierarchy root 4294967297 wrapping to record 1. Checked int4
conversion now serves hierarchy seeds and the two relation scan narrowing
sites. Unsupported hierarchy seed types are refused rather than dropped.
Boundary unit tests cover representability; live child_of and parent_of
compilation both refuse the overflowing ID. Large-ID relation reads were not
separately exercised end to end.

Reproduced a debug panic from rule addition i64::MAX + 1. Checked integer
addition and finite float result construction now refuse unsupported results;
unsigned integers outside int8 also refuse. Unit tests exercise integer and
float overflow and preserve ordinary numeric, string and array addition.
This is evaluator coverage, not a full security-rule differential corpus.

Validation with debug logging:
- 271 workspace Rust tests passed; 17 ignored by default.
- Both ignored pure PostgreSQL tests passed separately (24 Char comparisons,
  three escaped-pattern cases and the numeric text default case).
- 128 Python tests passed, including PostgreSQL references and rebuilt native
  extension source-checksum validation.
- A fresh base Odoo registry passed all 10 access-policy metadata cases.
- Nine live native res.country searches matched Odoo; two hierarchy overflow
  and one float-to-text request refused as expected.
- Clippy workspace/all-targets with -D warnings passed.
No browser run or full search corpus rerun was performed in this continuation.

Artifacts: /tmp/odoo-rust-boundaries-{char-before,char-after,hierarchy-before,
rules-before,default-before,workspace,postgres,python,registry,clippy,build}.log
and /tmp/odoo-rust-boundaries/odoo.log. Only disposable database
rustorm_boundaries_20261004 was used in this continuation.

Final checks: workspace formatting, Ruff, shell syntax and git diff --check
passed. The disposable database was dropped after confirming zero clients;
the temporary configuration was removed and debug logs retained. All three
continuations are committed together on main under the user's existing commit
instruction; earlier uncommitted-status notes describe their checkpoints.

Fourth continuation: follower-search ID narrowing
------------------------------------------------
A sweep of remaining `as i32` casts found the follower-search compiler still
narrowing partner IDs without checking. The before regression logged partner
4294967297 compiling to partner_id IN (1). This custom search is also used by
record rules; the test establishes incorrect SQL, not an end-to-end privilege
escalation on a live user fixture.

The compiler now uses the shared checked record_id conversion before building
the subquery, collecting int4 IDs directly. Unrepresentable IDs delegate via
KernelRefused. Regression coverage checks three overflowing values through
=, !=, in and not in, plus representable int4 endpoints and ordinary ID 1.
An initial assertion that ID 0 should compile was disproved: existing domain
optimization normalizes it to false and this custom search delegates that
operand. That existing behavior was preserved and the assertion corrected.

A separate hypothesis about large company-default integer comparisons was
not established: a synthetic bigint company field reached an int4 JSON cast
and PostgreSQL rejected its value before the suspected comparison could be
observed. The invalid exploratory test was removed; no precision-comparison
fix or broad bigint company-field support is claimed.

Validation: 272 Rust workspace tests passed, 17 ignored by default; 128 Python
tests passed with the rebuilt release extension, source-checksum validation
and disposable PostgreSQL references. Clippy all targets -D warnings,
workspace formatting and whitespace checks passed. Tests used debug logging.
No live Odoo follower-rule differential corpus or browser run was performed.
Logs: /tmp/odoo-rust-followers-{before,workspace,build,clippy,python}.log;
rejected exploratory probe: /tmp/odoo-rust-precision-before.log.
Disposable database rustorm_precision_20261004 was dropped after zero clients
were confirmed. Work committed on main; no feature branch created.

Fifth continuation: constant domain leaves
-----------------------------------------
Reproduced [2, '=', 2] parsing as Node::True in Rust. The parser previously
evaluated arbitrary integer-left leaves, treating an unparseable right operand
as -1 and unsupported operators as false. Odoo's Domain constructor instead
recognizes only the TRUE_LEAF and FALSE_LEAF sentinel tuples; other non-string
left operands raise TypeError. Python tuple equality also permits numerically
equivalent booleans and floats, which Rust previously refused or misclassified.

The parser now recognizes only those two sentinels with Python-equal numeric
forms and refuses all other non-string-left leaves. Tests cover seven invalid
and seven valid forms against the actual local Odoo Domain constructor, with
matching native parser regressions. The before native regression failed on
[2, '=', 2]; after it passes. No claim of a live authorization exploit is made:
this verifies parser semantics, including inputs Python rejects.

273 workspace Rust tests passed, 17 ignored by default. All 14 standalone
Python reference cases passed. Debug logs:
/tmp/odoo-rust-constants-{before,oracle,workspace,build,clippy}.log.
The rebuilt release extension passed the full selected Python suite: 142 tests,
including source checksum and PostgreSQL references, with debug logging.
Clippy all targets -D warnings, Ruff, formatting and whitespace checks passed.
The disposable rustorm_constants_20261004 database was dropped after confirming
zero clients. Full live Odoo corpus and browser tests were not rerun.
Final Python log: /tmp/odoo-rust-constants-python.log. Committed on main.

Sixth continuation: validate fields before leaf folding
------------------------------------------------------
Reproduced an unknown field disappearing into WHERE TRUE for =? false. The
native optimizer looked up the field optionally and ran constant-producing
rewrites before the later mandatory lookup. Odoo's BASIC optimizer instead
resolves the field first and raises ValueError. The same ordering matters for
empty membership and empty/wildcard-only patterns.

The native optimizer now refuses unknown field heads before rewriting. The
exact display_name pseudo-field keeps its dedicated synthetic compiler path;
this exception does not extend to dotted display_name names absent from the
registry. This is field-existence validation, not new support for arbitrary
field properties or custom search methods.

Retained regressions cover seven operator/value pairs across direct and dotted
unknown names, both positive and negated (28 native cases). Fourteen Python
reference cases run the actual Odoo BASIC optimizer on a model facade with an
empty field map, confirming ValueError before any field-dependent execution.
They do not require a live Odoo registry or assert end-to-end shim routing.

The workspace passed 274 Rust tests with 17 ignored by default; after narrowing
the display_name exception, all 184 pure tests passed again. Clippy all targets
-D warnings, Ruff, formatting and whitespace checks passed. Debug logs:
/tmp/odoo-rust-missing-{before,oracle,workspace,final-pure,build,clippy}.log.
The rebuilt release extension passed 156 Python tests, including its source
checksum and disposable PostgreSQL references, with debug logging. Python log:
/tmp/odoo-rust-missing-python.log. The disposable rustorm_missing_20261004
database was dropped after confirming zero clients. No full live Odoo corpus
or browser rerun. Committed on main without creating a feature branch.

Full integration loop, follow-up on 2026-10-04
---------------------------------------------
Artifacts: /tmp/odoo-rust-loop-20261004 (local debug logs; not a portable CI
artifact). All databases used below were created for this audit. Changes were
committed on main in separate, reviewable commits.

Confirmed and repaired:
* HTTP accepted internal Request assertions from public JSON. A pinned-user
  request could supply group/rule state that only Python should produce. The
  public field allowlist now rejects internal assertions, including empty
  values and requests authenticated by a token permitting superuser calls.
  Live checks preserve ordinary permitted reads and existing refusals; six
  forged pinned-user requests return 403. Token checks preserve 200 for an
  authorized public request, 401 without authentication, and 403 for internal
  metadata. The schema is fail-closed for future internal fields.
* Python rule detection missed dynamic reach policies whose compiled domains
  use stored fields or become TRUE. Grant scopes previously routed no calls
  for four principal classes. The revised trusted bridge resolves those rules,
  including delegated-parent policies: 180 comparisons agree with Python and
  all five principal classes route. Native-only clients still refuse policies
  requiring live Python compilation; this boundary was not relaxed.
* web_search_read screening removed __verbs before Python could compute the
  per-record response. Those requests now delegate with their specification
  intact. Odoo's previously failing TestVerbButtons regression now succeeds.
* Database overrides split quoted keyword DSNs and failed to override URI
  query-string dbname values. Rust now preserves the original options and
  appends an escaped final override; Python uses psycopg's conninfo builder.
  Parser checks cover spaces, quotes, backslashes, reserved URI characters,
  Unicode, duplicate dbname parameters and passwords containing ://. The Python
  helper also connected to a live TLS database with a quote, space and slash
  in its name. Rust coverage of those names uses the actual connection parser.
* Bare unittest execution did not establish Odoo's current_test lifecycle.
  The shared runner uses OdooSuite/OdooTestResult and restores prior context.
  Cursor parity also starts its own HTTP server and enables read-only cursors
  before registry construction. Both 403-test cursor legs now pass with zero
  failures; the 97-test upstream routing gate passes with 106 routed calls.
* The verification shell did not consistently propagate the freshly built
  extension and assumed a fixed local PostgreSQL user for its initial check.
  All subprocesses now inherit the selected extension and the database check
  uses the configured endpoint. ORM comparison checks process exits and test
  totals. Live boundary coverage checks exact exception types/messages too.
* Traffic timing counted failed routed calls as fast successful reads. Timed
  failures now abort, with debug context and mode restoration. An injected
  failure control verifies that behavior. Parity cleanup now owns a child PID
  instead of killing any listener on its port; an occupied-port probe verifies
  the existing listener survives.
* Low-level probes initialize debug loggers. The ignored statement benchmark
  now requires its registry export instead of silently passing without it.
  Reruns with missing and stale exports failed rather than being counted as
  passing benchmarks. After correcting the fixtures, a fresh-export run passed.

Execution caveats: the first run exposed a stale-extension import. After fixing
propagation, a long shell run was interrupted when this audit edited its script
while Bash was reading it. Remaining stages were run from a frozen copy, and
failed stages were rerun individually after their fixes. This evidence combines
explicit stage results; it does not claim one uninterrupted all-green verify.sh
exit. The standalone refusal-share gate remains red as described below.

Completed verification evidence:
* Rust workspace: 276 ordinary tests pass; fmt and clippy --all-targets pass.
* Ruff passes on changed Python files and bash -n passes on changed scripts.
  A broader Ruff scan also reports six existing C901 complexity violations in
  unchanged ab_workload.py, fuzz_corpus.py (two), soak.py, sweep_corpus.py and
  write_diff.py. No repository-wide clean-lint claim is made.
* Python shim checks: 84 pass, zero skipped. Harness/read/search contracts:
  89 pass with the disposable PostgreSQL DSN, plus the subsequently added
  timed-failure control (the complete harness module is now 34 passing tests).
* Runtime contracts pass, including expected injected failure/divergence
  controls. Live search boundaries: 39 comparisons (27 results, 12 matching
  errors), 16 native calls and explicit fallback controls.
* Final HTTP byte parity: 1,644 cases, 1,620 stable, 24 nondeterministic,
  1,546 answered successfully; zero stable divergences; 1,659 routed reads.
* Original full sweep: 3,399 native result comparisons and 5,925 matching
  access-denial decisions; no result mismatch. Its coverage gate FAILS:
  4,862 refusals plus 259 Python-error/native-decline cases exceed the 30%
  refusal ceiling (about 35%). Many are deliberately Python-compiled reach
  rules. The threshold was not reduced and this is not reported as a pass.
* Earlier full stages also passed: 331 shadow comparisons; fuzz seeds 1-3;
  24,212 registry shapes (16,834 routed); 12 browser tours with zero shadow
  divergence; replay controls; cross-database loading; COPY; registry policy;
  eight native write checks; 112-model write differential (388 rows, 2,716
  cells); all three injected write controls; and search-port differential.
* Pool cancellation, reconnect and backend-termination checks pass on owned
  PostgreSQL databases. TLS negotiates encryption and rejects the untrusted
  certificate under verify-full. The soak completed 36,309 requests in 20.1s
  after warmup without a reported mismatch.

Performance evidence is deliberately limited:
* The statement-retention benchmark's final median was 5.869 ms per three-query
  iteration, saving 55.0% against request-scoped caches. The earlier cache-hit
  control also improved at one and four threads. These are focused controls.
* Captured read traffic: 3,132 of 3,280 calls succeeded in Python preflight;
  three timed rounds completed without swallowed failures. Best totals were
  routing off 6.679s and on 10.591s (1.59x slower), with 3,304 native dispatches
  per on round. Debug logging and concurrent test load were enabled. This
  does not establish production throughput or an overall routing speedup.

Final six-module ORM rerun: 1,973 tests on each leg, zero failures/errors on
both legs, 846 routed calls. The previously failing record-verbs test succeeds.
Final expanded every-user rerun: 62,877 comparisons across 14 users and 66
contexts, zero mismatches; process exit 0. This includes inactive records,
French translations, scoped grants and reordered company selections.

Cleanup: all four owned databases, the temporary TLS cluster, copied configs
and disposable filestore/cache data were removed. Debug logs remain under the
artifact root; the original verify2/every_user.log is retained as .log.gz.
No claim of exhaustive ORM correctness is made by this finite corpus.

Traffic measurement follow-up (2026-10-04)
----------------------------------------
Deterministic clock controls reproduced six failures in the previous traffic
benchmark: independently minimized timings, zero/negative rounds, empty/missing
model workloads, and a changed routed/fallback classification after warmup.
The existing injected timed-failure control continued passing.

The benchmark now alternates execution order, reports the median of paired
on/off ratios, and uses one explicitly identified actual pair for breakdowns.
Invalid workloads and changing routes fail with state restoration. Debug logs
identify pair order and routing changes. An even-round control checks that the
interpolated median and representative pair are labeled separately.

Validation: harness/test_harness.py, 41 passed with --log-level=DEBUG; Ruff
checks on both changed Python files passed. Before/after test output is in
/tmp/rustorm-traffic-before.log and /tmp/rustorm-traffic-after.log. These are
reporting and failure-path controls, not new live performance measurements.
The prior live results remain historical evidence with their stated limits;
the standalone coverage gate and actual routing overhead remain open.

Rule-expression grouping follow-up (2026-10-04)
---------------------------------------------
The parser represented `(user.id)` as a sequence instead of a grouped name,
and added an extra sequence layer to parenthesized domains. A regression test
failed before the change with Seq([Name(...)]) versus Name(...). Python AST
probes independently confirmed six grouping equivalences, including comments,
addition, a whole domain and a grouped mapped() field name.

Parentheses now group when no comma is present. Empty, singleton and multi-item
tuples retain sequence behavior; malformed expressions and non-string mapped()
arguments still refuse. Validation with debug logging: focused regression and
277 ordinary workspace tests passed; workspace Clippy with warnings denied
passed. Logs: /tmp/rustorm-grouping-workspace.log and
/tmp/rustorm-grouping-clippy.log. No coverage percentage improvement is claimed
without a fresh corpus run.

Rule-context attribute follow-up (2026-10-04)
------------------------------------------
Native name resolution ignored trailing attributes on company_id/company_ids.
The new evaluator test failed before the fix: company_id.id returned 3. Odoo's
safe_eval probe instead raised ValueError (wrapping AttributeError). It also
confirmed company_id.denominator returns 1, not the native base value 3, while
company_id.real legitimately returns 3. These attribute expressions now refuse
native evaluation so Python decides their meaning; plain context names remain
native. The same explicit refusal covers group_ids attribute paths.

The database-backed evaluator control verifies seven exact values (including
grouping and singleton tuples) and six unsupported attribute expressions.
All four db_rules tests passed on disposable rustorm_expr_20261004_2348 with
debug logging. The database was removed afterward. All 277 ordinary workspace
tests and workspace Clippy with warnings denied passed. Before/after and final
logs: /tmp/rustorm-context-{before,after,workspace,clippy}.log.

Recordset ID cardinality follow-up (2026-10-04)
---------------------------------------------
The rule evaluator conflated scalar .id with mapped('id'): an empty mapped
result became false, a singleton became an integer, and a multi-record .id
became a list instead of delegating Python's Expected singleton error. The
extended evaluator test failed before the fix on false versus []. A probe of
Odoo's real Id descriptor confirmed empty/singleton/multiple-record behavior;
the traversal mapped implementation applies the descriptor per record.

The evaluator now distinguishes these forms. Nine controls check .id, .ids
and mapped('id') over empty, singleton and reverse-ordered multiple IDs.
mapped('ids') also refuses because ids is not a field. Four database rule tests
passed against disposable rustorm_ids_20261005_0001, which was then removed.
All 277 ordinary workspace tests and Clippy with warnings denied passed.
Tests used debug logging; logs: /tmp/rustorm-ids-{before,after,workspace,clippy}.log.
An overly broad --include-ignored run failed unrelated db_probe setup because
its default rustorm_probe database and TLS fixtures were absent; that run is
not counted as validation (/tmp/rustorm-ids-all.log).

Remaining review candidate: mapped() over ordinary scalar fields still has
cardinality/order handling that needs independent Python comparison and a
fixture-backed regression before changes. No overall coverage or performance
improvement is claimed from this ID-specific fix.

Scalar mapping follow-up (2026-10-05 UTC)
---------------------------------------
The fixture-backed regression reproduced an empty mapped scalar becoming false
instead of []. The evaluator also returned a bare scalar for a singleton and
sorted larger mapped results by database ID instead of recordset order. A
preceding relational mapped() incorrectly made subsequent ordinary scalar
access return a list instead of requiring a singleton.

Terminal scalar mappings now retain list shape and input order, including
repeated IDs, using unnest WITH ORDINALITY. Missing mapped rows refuse rather
than silently disappearing. Ordinary scalar access still requires a singleton,
even after mapped('parent_id'). Existing field/model/registry test builders were
moved into kernel/tests/support so pure and database tests share the fixtures.

Odoo's actual TraversalMixin.mapped was independently invoked with field/cache
stubs over empty, singleton, reversed and duplicate IDs; all four results
matched the Rust regression's expectations. This was a focused method probe,
not a full Odoo integration run. Five database rule tests passed with debug
logging, along with 277 ordinary workspace tests and workspace Clippy with
warnings denied. Disposable rustorm_scalar_20261005_a was removed. Logs:
/tmp/rustorm-scalar-{before,after,workspace,clippy}.log.

Relational traversal ordering/deduplication and scalar null/type conversion
remain separate review areas; this fix does not claim parity for every mapped
expression or an improved overall corpus coverage percentage.

Numeric scalar conversion follow-up (2026-10-05 UTC)
--------------------------------------------------
Direct probes of Odoo's field convert_to_record(None, ...) confirmed integer
and Many2oneReference nulls become 0, float/monetary nulls become 0.0, and
text/boolean nulls remain false. The registry's text search-comparand default
is not the record value and was deliberately not reused for this conversion.

The database regression failed against the previous commit with Bool(false)
versus Number(0). A preliminary test-fixture error (the JSON macro interpreting
the identifier `null` as literal JSON null) was corrected before that baseline
run. The evaluator now shares null/value conversion across direct and mapped
reads, returns integer Many2oneReference values, and refuses missing direct
rows instead of treating them as null fields.

Twenty exact-value controls cover five field types across null rows, empty
recordsets, populated rows and mixed mapped reads; an additional missing-row
control requires refusal. Six database rule tests and all 277 ordinary
workspace tests passed with debug logging. Workspace Clippy with warnings
denied passed. Disposable rustorm_nulls_20261005_a was removed. Logs:
/tmp/rustorm-nulls-{before,after,workspace,clippy}.log.

This does not establish conversion parity for translated text, JSON, binary,
dates or non-finite floating point. Relational ordering/deduplication and the
fresh broad integration/coverage/performance runs remain open.

Many2one ordering follow-up (2026-10-05 UTC)
-----------------------------------------
The database regression reproduced [3, 5, 5] instead of [5, 3] when traversing
source records [7, 3, 5, 9]. Odoo's actual Many2one.convert_to_record_multi
independently confirmed first-seen uniqueness and exclusion of null relations.
The native query now follows input ordinality and deduplicates targets in that
order. Missing source rows refuse instead of disappearing. Four controls cover
ordered IDs, duplicate targets collapsing to a singleton, ordinary scalar
access after mapping, and a mapped dotted scalar path.

Six database rule tests and 277 ordinary workspace tests passed with debug
logging; workspace Clippy with warnings denied passed. Disposable database
rustorm_rel_20261005_a was removed. Logs are /tmp/rustorm-rel-*.log.
One2many and many2many traversal still require separate ordering/domain review.

Non-finite rule numbers follow-up (2026-10-05 UTC)
-----------------------------------------------
The database regression reproduced Ok(Null) when reading a stored NaN. Odoo's
actual Float converter preserved NaN and both infinities; safe_eval also kept
an overflowing decimal float literal as infinity. Native JSON cannot represent
these values, so field reads, float literals and arithmetic now share a checked
conversion that refuses rather than substituting null.

Six database controls cover direct and mapped reads of the three non-finite
values; one checks an overflowing literal. Existing finite/null controls and
arithmetic-overflow tests remain green. Six database tests, all 277 ordinary
workspace tests and workspace Clippy passed, with debug logging for tests.
Disposable rustorm_nonfinite_20261005_a was removed. Logs:
/tmp/rustorm-nonfinite-{before,after,workspace,clippy}.log.

Runtime prerequisite follow-up (2026-10-05 UTC)
--------------------------------------------
A new base-only database reached the middle of runtime_contract.py before
failing because res.role belongs to mail. The harness now checks for res.role
and mail.mail immediately after loading the registry, before installing shims
or modifying fixtures. A base-only control exits with the required module and
missing model names. Installing mail and rerunning the full contract succeeds
against the extension rebuilt from 37d0cdf. Ruff passed for the changed script.
Logs are runtime-base-only.log, runtime-preflight.log and runtime.log under
/tmp/rustorm-integration-20261005. The original setup failure is not counted
as a product regression or an intentional injected-error test.

Constant reach routing follow-up (2026-10-05 UTC)
-----------------------------------------------
The shim classified reach=none as dynamic, causing per-principal Python domain
resolution even though the native loader already implements it as FALSE.
The new control failed before the one-case allowlist correction and passes
afterward. Odoo's real _reach_domain independently returned TRUE for all and
FALSE for none. Delegated-parent controls retain Python resolution for partner
reach and skip it for None/empty/all/none. All 84 shim tests passed with debug
logging; Ruff passed for both changed Python files. Logs:
/tmp/rustorm-constant-reach-{before,after}.log. No timing benefit is claimed
without measurement; this removes an unnecessary resolution path.

HTTP parity isolation follow-up (2026-10-05 UTC)
---------------------------------------------
The fresh HTTP run reported five differences, all on ir.cron.progress: baseline
count 29 versus routed count 30. The routed server log showed the scheduled
API Communications retry job inserting progress between the legs. The test
configuration had inherited two cron, one job and one stream worker.

parity.sh now disables those background workers in both legs and explicitly
enables its HTTP endpoint. The rerun passed: 1,311 cases, 1,287 stable, 24
nondeterministic, 1,234 answered, zero divergences and 1,315 native dispatches.
Both server startup logs confirm zero background workers. Port 9560 was free
after cleanup. bash -n and git diff --check passed. Before/after artifacts are
parity/ and parity-fixed/ under /tmp/rustorm-integration-20261005. The first
run's background jobs changed fixture contents, so the regenerated corpus is
six cases larger; the rerun is not claimed to use identical database contents.

Dispatch timing follow-up (2026-10-05 UTC)
----------------------------------------
Fresh traffic replay: 2,516 of 2,622 captured calls passed Python preflight.
Alternating paired totals were off/on 2.279/3.219s, 2.304/3.110s and
2.470/3.278s. Median paired on/off ratio: 1.35x (slower). Every on round made
2,624 native dispatches; no timed call failed and routing classification stayed
stable. Logs: traffic.log under /tmp/rustorm-integration-20261005. Different
fixtures and logging mean this is not a speedup comparison with older runs.

A separate cProfile replay attributed 3.416s cumulative of 6.701s routed time
to _resolved_rules, primarily optimize_full and hierarchy expansion. These are
instrumented diagnostic times, not the unprofiled benchmark. Profiles and
sorted reports are profile-{off,on}.pstats[.txt] in the artifact directory.
Caching these results across writes/snapshots would require a dependency and
invalidation contract; the profile does not justify dropping rule resolution.

The dispatch debug logger previously measured only native dispatch. It now
reports preparation (including connection acquisition), native dispatch, JSON
decoding and total bridge-call time. String lengths are labeled characters,
not bytes. Disabled debug logging performs no clock reads. Deterministic timing
controls reproduced the missing phases before the change and now pass; all
85 shim tests and Ruff passed. A live six-call native probe confirmed the new
log fields and preserved results (dispatch-timing.log). Unit logs:
/tmp/rustorm-dispatch-{before,after}.log.
